Perfectly Secret Encryption

Let Pi denote the Vigenere cipher where the message space consists of all
three character strings over the English alphabet, and the key is generated
by first choosing the period t uniformly from one, two, three and then letting
the key be a uniform string of length t.

Define A as follows. A outputs m zero equals aab and m one equals abb. When
given a ciphertext c, it outputs zero if the first character of c is the
same as the second character of c, and outputs one otherwise. Compute the
probability that the private key experiment with adversary A and scheme Pi
equals one.

Construct and analyze an adversary A prime for which the probability that
the private key experiment with A prime and Pi equals one is greater than
your answer from part a.

In this exercise, we look at different conditions under which the shift,
mono alphabetic substitution, and Vigenere ciphers are perfectly secret.

Prove that if only a single character is encrypted, then the shift
cipher is perfectly secret.

What is the largest message space M for which the mono alphabetic
substitution cipher provides perfect secrecy.

Prove that the Vigenere cipher using a fixed period t is perfectly
secret when used to encrypt messages of length t.
Reconcile this with the attacks shown in the previous chapter.

Prove that a scheme satisfying Definition two point five must have the
size of the key space greater than or equal to the size of the message space
without using Lemma two point four. Specifically, let Pi be an arbitrary encryption
scheme with the key space smaller than the message space. Show an adversary A
for which the probability of success is greater than one half.
Hint: It may be easier to let A be randomized.

Assume we require only that an encryption scheme with generation, encryption,
and decryption algorithms along with message space M satisfy the following.
For all messages m in M, we have the probability that decrypting the encryption
of m recovers m is at least two to the power of negative t. This probability is
taken over choice of the key as well as any randomness used during encryption.
Show that perfect secrecy can be achieved with a smaller key space when t is at
least one. Prove a lower bound on the size of K in terms of t.

Let epsilon be greater than or equal to zero and be a constant. Say an encryption
scheme is epsilon perfectly secret if for every adversary A it holds that the
probability of success in the private key experiment is at most one half plus epsilon.
Compare to Definition two point five. Show that epsilon perfect secrecy can be achieved
with a smaller key space when epsilon is greater than zero. Prove a lower bound on the
size of K in terms of epsilon.
